Hyper Text Markup language
1) State less protocol : it never work or store on data it perform only i/o


NodeJS
1) node -v  : to check version if it installed
2) NodeJs contains NPM(Node programe Manager) which is responsible for installing and uninstalling the packages
3) Normally the JS run on the browser. If we want to work the JS without the browser we should use the NodeJS.
4) When we use NodeJs to execute JavaScript which will be working without hte browser , so we should not have any I/O operation of the browser.
5) ES5 and ES6 versions of the js 
6) ES6 has something called as Scope , Lambda expressions , different types of oprators and OOPs .
7) Normally the browser will understand the ES5 , so when we write the syntax of ES6 we need a NodeJS to compile or Babble Compiler.
8) to create the structure of the HTML we have to use => npm init  : this will create the package of Json files
9) when we create variable using "let" then it has "local scope"  and variable with "var" has "Global Scope" .

10) Lambda Expression : Creating the function with minimum defination is called lambda expression

11) The JavaScript is DTD (Dynamic type defination)
12) since it is DTD inside the programm if the type get change , still the javascript will work with wrong output. to overcome this problem
    we have to use the TypeScript


13) TypeScript : It is the same Js but with the type defination and it dosen't allow the dynamic data typing. So the programmer can be confident
                 about the datatype ,However The browser will not understand the TS , It need to converted back to the JS. So while developing 
   		we use TS and during execution we convert it into JS , so there is no type Mismatched  
     - to convert Ts to JS it required TSC (TypeScript Compiler)
     - we should use TS to have a service layer( only computation not fot the UI)


Assignment:
 i) Create HTML page to add two numbers
ii) create html page to display mathematical table
iii) Create html page to accept name , age , city ; create 2 buttons one for adding the data to the array and other to display the data from array.